>> Todd Gardner: We're gonna get
back into the Core Web Vitals and
our third web vital, and
probably most often misunderstood one,
Interaction to Next Paint or INP, and
it's exactly what it says on the tin.
It's how long does it take
between an interaction and
the next time the browser can paint.
How long is that and it's figuring
out which one is the slowest,
this is measuring how quickly do
users feel like they can interact
with your website and is it getting
in the way, is it breaking flow?
Again, this is going to be the kind
of metric like LCP and CLS,
where you don't have one score, this is
very dependent on each individual user.
Sometimes the user has no interactions,
you will not have an INP score.
An INP score does not show up in most
performance reports of your site
because a performance report,
generally doesn't interact,
doesn't click on anything,
doesn't do anything.
This is measuring the actual interactions
that an actual user is doing on your site
and figuring out what's the slowest one.
So what's an interaction?
An interaction is a click, a drag, a
touch, a key press, but it's not a scroll.
It's not the user scrolling around the
page, it doesn't count, that's too easy,
not worth measuring.
There's other,
other things involved in that.
So what does this look like?
Here is a really simplified flame chart
that shows what we are measuring so
the user clicks on something,
interacts in some way,
type something, drag something, whatever.
Now there might be a delay,
the browser might be busy doing things
when the user clicks on something.
And that we'd measure as an input delay,
it'd be the time that the browser's
blocked doing something else.
And then there's, three events, they
actually get fired when the user clicks.
There's that pointer up,
a mouse up and a click event,
and all three events get fired in order.
And then if you have JavaScript handlers,
if you said hey button add event
listener click do these things all
of your JavaScript is now running.
And then once all those are done,
all of those event handlers are done,
it says, great.
Now I need to paint anything that changed,
and render the document.
And then when that's all done,
the browser will draw a new frame and
show it to the user.
And so we're measuring all of that
time between when the inputs received,
and that frame is presented,
all of that together.
So again, the gray, main could be busy,
the main thread could be busy running
other JavaScripts, downloading an image,
getting in the way somehow.
Run all your JavaScript handlers and
then execute your DOM layout.
So let's take an example, so
here is Developer Stickers Online, and
Developer Stickers Online has this
big Add to Cart button all over it,
including right here in the header.
So if I convince the user successfully
to add this thing to cart,
they really want this sticker of a flying
sloth, and they click on Add to Cart,
INP is measuring the time and
from that click,
then I have an event handler that listens
for that click and does some stuff.
It sends a fetch request to add
that to the user's cart, and
then once that event is done,
it runs some analytics, and
then it updates the cart
count in the header.
So everything that happens until we
draw the update where that one happens,
which is the next paint event,
everything gets counted.
So there's a couple of different
ways we can make this better.
We can paint sooner, and we can do less,
and that's fundamentally the tactics that
we'll use to improve this
in a little while, yeah.
You talk a little bit about how async
factors into this if you invoke a promise?
Yeah, again, we're gonna talk about
that a lot in the improving section.
The main way that we handle
this is through async,
through what's called yielding
on the main thread, is if we,
when we pick up on that event handler,
and we do a bunch of stuff synchronously,
that's all blocking the main thread and
stopping the paint event from happening.
If we do stuff asynchronously,
like with a promise or with a weight or
callbacks or whatever, that's essentially
kicking things into the future,
so the next paint event can happen sooner.
That's the main tactic that we're
gonna use to make this better,
we're gonna talk about
that in the last section.
>> Todd Gardner: So, INP is not
measuring a single time this happens,
it's measuring every time this happens,
it's not adding them together,
but it is picking the worst one.
So, every time the user interacts,
it generates an INP.
An INP event will be captured by the
browser, and the time will be recorded.
So, here's a bunch of times that came
out of an interaction that I did as part
of testing this, and
a lot of them were good.
Some of them like two milliseconds, it's
great, four milliseconds, the user didn't
notice, that one was 243 milliseconds,
which is enough that the user noticed.
If we think back to why web performance
is important in the studies around
user interactivity,
if it's more than 0.1 seconds,
which is 100 milliseconds,
the user notices.
That's what we're trying to prevent.
We're trying to prevent the user from
noticing this so that score of over 243,
milliseconds that generates an iron
a bad INP interaction event.
Now, some things we might want to
know about INP that's a little weird.
There might not be an interaction,
not every visit to a page
will have an INP score,
a lot of times the user comes to a page,
looks at it, decide it sucks and leaves.
Abouts, there is no interaction,
there is no INP, second thing
is you don't know what is the worst one
is during the lifetime of the page,
because we're constantly capturing it,
we're picking the worst one.
We don't know what the worst
INP is until the user leaves.
So you can't actually
capture this until the end.
The third thing is that this is heavily
influenced by the capability of
your device.
If you spend time testing on your MacBooks
or on your developer workstations,
you're gonna be, yeah, INP is great.
There's no problems here
everything is super fast.
And that's largely due to how fast and
beefy your machine is because a user
instead visiting on a $200 Android
device with a really tiny ARM processor
in it is going to have a way worse time,
a way harder time executing all
your JavaScript than you do.
And so you have to really consider who
your users are and who uses your site and
what their capability is,
we're gonna talk about that more too.
So what is a good score to Google?
Google doesn't even try and
get everybody to that 100 millisecond
threshold that is not noticeable yet.
I think they are going to, I think this
was the first set of goals that they're
trying to get websites to, and
then they're going to advance this to 100
milliseconds in the next couple of years.
But right now it's at 200 milliseconds to
be good, which is some interactions might
be, there might be a noticeable delay
to the user, but most of them are good.
Now, if you get more than 500
milliseconds, so half a second,
that's full on bad.
So, that would be something would
feel visibly laggy when you click on-
Something in a page, it would look
visibly laggy to that end user.
Okay, before I move on understanding,
we're gonna talk about how to fix these
problems a lot in the last section,
any questions about what INP is or
how it's measured?
>> Speaker 2: Is the INP square
based on the worst interaction or
an average of all interactions?
>> Todd Gardner: The worst interaction,
so if you have a hundred interaction and
picks the worst one.
Now there is a very,
minutia technical details,
is that if you have a lot of interactions,
if you have, dozens or
hundreds there is like a caveat where,
for every I think it's 80 interactions,
they ignore the worst of that 80 and
pick the second worst.
As was really just a data noise signal
reduction thing to make their data better,
but for our purposes, as web performance
professionals, we should really
think of it as the worst and try and make
sure that the worst one is never so bad.
>> Todd Gardner: You had a question.
>> Speaker 3: So
let's say we got our index page, and
we redirect to another page,
an about page and
say there was a very intensive
database lookup on that page.
Is that gonna affect
the SEO of my index page?
>> Todd Gardner: Yes, yep, yeah,
that's not really an INP thing,
that's just a load time thing.
But if you hit the index page and as part
of that index, you return a 301 redirect
to another page, and that page is slow,
that whole chain is considered one thing,
and you're gonna have a really,
really slow INP or not INP.
You're gonna have a really,
really slow LCP because the load
time is just gonna be huge.
Now, there's no interaction that's
not necessarily gonna interact or
impact your INP at all.
Your INP would be based of when
we've arrived at that about page and
the user clicks on something,
if you don't do anything to show
the user a response to that click,
and you block until you're done,
that would cause a bad INP.
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: I was gonna say so
it's measurement is to the next
time the paint happens?
So what if you click something and the
paint is just replacing with a spinner?
>> Todd Gardner: That's fine.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Todd Gardner: You don't have to be done
with your action, things on the web can be
expensive, you could click a button, and
that button could generate a fetch call,
and that fetch talks to a database, and
the whole interaction
could take ten seconds.
It could be, now that could have
other user experience problems, but
as long as your click handler just shows
the user spinner, starts a fetch call,
and gets out of the way, the next paint is
just showing the spinner, and that's fine.
This is really about,
when you click on something and
you don't show the user anything.
You don't give them any indication you
do too much expensive JavaScript in
response to that click event, that's
when the whole browser appears just to,
kind of shudder and freeze, cuz nothing
else can happen after that event.
>> Speaker 5: So this is based of the
entire lifetime that the user has the page
open.
>> Todd Gardner: The entire
lifetime the page is open.
So if you have a long running application
and the user has time on page
of like ten minutes, an hour,
whatever, you don't know this,
you can't know this until you'd send
this data out with an unload thing or
a beacon, leaving the page at
the end of the page's lifecycle.
You don't know until the end,
because the user can continue
interacting up until that point.
>> Speaker 5: So how does that send if you
just close the page, how does it send?
>> Todd Gardner: When you just
close the page or whatever,
how tools that would capture this.
So the browser captures it itself for
Google's purposes, and so
that'll be in the internals of
Chrome itself, we'll be all right,
this page is getting torn down,
I'm gonna send this data.
If we wanted to
programmatically capture it,
the way that we would do this
is with the beacon, which is
an API that allows us to send analytics
data out as a page is being destroyed.
That's the only way to
reliably get the INP out.
We're not necessarily gonna
talk about that so much, but
if you're interested in rolling your own
reporting tools that capture this data,
look at the Beacon API, which allows
you to send that sort of data.